## Docker structure

Docker is divided into many abstractions.
In this section, you will learn more about each one.


### Docker vs VMs

Docker proposes a way to segment applications into isolated places. Why is this interesting? It is interesting because it is exactly what we want when creating VMs (Virtual Machines). The main difference is that Docker does it with much less overhead. How? Instead of virtualizing all hardware and loading one OS for each VM, Docker talks with the host kernel and puts itself into a middleware between the application (container) and the kernel. The container communicates with Docker, asking, "Hey, what processes are running?" Docker lies and just indicates the processes that are running in the container.
Every layer of Docker has the same concept, so Docker is much faster than VMs and less resource-hungry, despite not providing the same isolation as VMs.

## Abstrations

### Images

<strong>Concept:</strong> An image is a snapshot of the application<br>

### Containers
- What is it?<br>
It is not that simple. The concept of containers is simple, but it is hard to fully understand.

<strong>Concept:</strong> A container uses an image to run the application

### Images vs Containers

<strong>Similarities:</strong> Both contain the application<br>
<strong>Differences:</strong> An image is read-only, a container is read-write; a container is runnable, an image is buildable.

[Recommended articles](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/docker-image-vs-container)

### Volumes

<strong>Concept:</strong> A volume is a place that holds the data generated by an application (container)

### Network

<strong>Concept:</strong> A network is the way that applications (containers) use to communicate with each other.


## docker internally

### Docker engine

[recommended articles](https://blog.lsantos.dev/entendendo-runtimes-de-containers/)
